1. B. The correct answer is a boot sector virus, which is one that will affect the boot sector of the hard drive. Thus, what operating system you boot to is irrelevant.
Option A is incorrect. There is no element of ransom in the description of this attack.
Option C is incorrect. A rootkit can sometimes also affect the boot sector, but in this case the boot sector virus is the most accurate description.
Option D is incorrect. Nothing in this description indicates key logging.
2. C. The correct answer is spear phishing. Spear phishing is targeted to a specific group, in this case insurance professionals. Attackers can find individuals from public sources to target. This is known as open source intelligence.
Option A is incorrect because that is too broad a category.
Option B is incorrect because, though social engineering is a part of every phishing attack, this is more than just social engineering.
Option D is incorrect because this is not a Trojan horse. In fact, malware is not even part of the attack.
3. B. A logic bomb is malware that performs its malicious activity when some condition is met.
Option A is incorrect because a worm is malware that self-propagates.
Option C is incorrect because a Trojan horse is malware attached to a legitimate program.
Option D is incorrect because a rootkit is malware that gets root or administrative privileges.
4. C. The text shown is the classic example of a basic SQL injection to log in to a site.
Option A is incorrect. Cross-site scripting would have JavaScript in the text field.
Option B is incorrect. Cross-site request forgery would not involve any text being entered in the web page.
Option D is incorrect. ARP poisoning is altering the ARP table in a switch; it is not related to website hacking.
5. B. Half-open connections are the hallmark of a SYN flood.
Option A is incorrect. We know from the question that this is a denial of service, but nothing indicates that it is (or is not) a distributed denial of service.
Option C is incorrect. Buffer overflow involves putting too much data into a variable or array.
Option D is incorrect. ARP poisoning is altering the ARP table in a switch; it is not related to website hacking.
6. B. The primary and best way to defend against the attacks mentioned is filtering user input.
Option A is incorrect. Encrypting the web traffic will not have any effect on these two attacks.
Option C is incorrect. A web application firewall (WAF) might mitigate these attacks, but it would be secondary to filtering user input.
Option D is incorrect. An IDS will simply detect the attack—it won’t stop it.
7. C. If users have been connecting but the WAP does not show them connecting, then they
have been connecting to a rogue access point. This could be the cause of an architecture
and design weakness such as a network without segmentation and control of devices connecting to the network.
Option A is incorrect. Session hijacking involves taking over an already authenticated session.
Most session hijacking attacks involve impersonation. The attacker attempts to gain access to
another user’s session by posing as that user.
Option B is incorrect. Clickjacking involves causing visitors to a website to click on the
wrong item.
Option D is incorrect. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
8. C. Cross-site scripting involves entering a script into text areas that other users will view.
Option A is incorrect. SQL injection is not about entering scripts, but rather SQL commands.
Option B is incorrect. Clickjacking is about tricking users into clicking on the wrong thing.
Option D is incorrect. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
9. B. A Trojan horse wraps a malicious program to a legitimate program. When the user
downloads and installs the legitimate program, they get the malware.
Option A is incorrect. A logic bomb is malware that does its misdeeds when some condition is met.
Option C is incorrect. A rootkit is malware that gets administrative, or root access.
Option D is incorrect. A macro virus is a virus that is embedded in a document as a macro.
10. C. A backdoor is a method for bypassing normal security and directly accessing the system.
Option A is incorrect. A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeeds when some
condition is met.
Option B is incorrect. A Trojan horse wraps a malicious program to a legitimate program.
When the user downloads and installs the legitimate program, they get the malware.
Option D is incorrect. A rootkit is malware that gets root or administrative privileges.
11. C. The machines in her network are being used as bots, and the users are not aware that
they are part of a DDoS attack.
Option A is incorrect. Social engineering is when someone tries to manipulate you into
giving information. Techniques involved in social engineering attacks include consensus,
scarcity, and familiarity.
Option B is incorrect. There is a slight chance that all computers could have a backdoor, but that is very unlikely, and attackers normally don’t manually log into each
machine to do a distributed denial of service (DDoS)—it would be automated, as
through a bot.
Option D is incorrect. Crypto-viruses are not related to DDoS attacks.
12. B. This is a classic example of ransomware.
Option A is incorrect. A rootkit provides access to administrator/root privileges.
Option C is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its malicious activity when some condition is met.
Option D is incorrect. This scenario does not describe whaling.
13. D. The primary method for stopping both cross-site scripting and SQL injection is to
check or filter user input.
Option A is incorrect. A web application firewall might help, but a basic SPI firewall won’t
prevent this.
Option B is incorrect. Most IDSs/IPSs won’t detect cross-site scripting, and even if one
will, option A is still the best way to prevent cross-site scripting.
Option C is incorrect. This is not a buffer overflow, and checking buffer boundaries
won’t help.
14. B. This is the description of a buffer overflow.
Option A is incorrect. Bluesnarfing is a Bluetooth attack.
Option C is incorrect. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
Option D is incorrect. This is not a distributed denial of service.
15. A. Vulnerability scan uses automated tools such as Nessus and Microsoft Baseline
Security Analyzer to find known vulnerabilities.
Option B is incorrect. Penetration tests seek to actually exploit the vulnerabilities and
break into systems.
Option C is incorrect. Security audits usually focus on checking policies, incident reports,
and other documents.
Option D is incorrect. Security test is a generic term for any sort of test.
16. A. Credentials the WAP shipped with are an example of default configuration.
Option B is incorrect. Race conditions involve multithreaded applications accessing shared
variables.
Option C is incorrect. Patches won’t change the default password.
Option D is incorrect. Encryption does not affect logging into the administrative screen.
17. C. Social engineering can only be countered by user training and education.
Options A and B are incorrect. No technology can prevent social engineering.
Option D is incorrect. Strong policies can only help if users are well trained in the policies.
18. C. ARP poisoning is used to change the ARP tables routing data to a different MAC
address, which would explain why there were no entries.
Option A is incorrect. A backdoor would not explain that the log entries were sent, but not
received.
Option B is incorrect. A buffer overflow would not explain that the log entries were sent
but not received.
Option D is incorrect. An IDS would not stop log entries even if it was malfunctioning.
19. A. From the description it appears that they are not logging into the real web server but
rather a fake server. That indicates typosquatting: have a URL that is named very similarly
to a real site so that when users mistype the real site’s URL they will go to the fake site.
Options B, C, and D are all incorrect. These are all methods of attacking a website, but in
this case, the actual website was not attacked. Instead, some users are visiting a fake site.
20. D. The term for low-skilled hackers is script kiddie.
Option A is incorrect. Nothing indicates this is being done for ideological reasons.
Option B is incorrect. “Amateur” may be an appropriate description, but the correct term
is script kiddie.
Option C is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario indicates an insider threat.
21. B. The term for this is botnet, usually spelled as one word.
Options A, C, and D are all incorrect. Although these terms might sound the same, they
are simply not the terms used in the industry.
22. B. Passive reconnaissance is any reconnaissance that is done without actually connecting
to the target.
Option A is incorrect. Active reconnaissance involves communicating with the target
network, such as doing a port scan.
Option C is incorrect. The initial exploitation is not information gathering; it is actually
breaking into the target network.
Option D is incorrect. A pivot is when you have breached one system and use that to move
to another system.
23. C. Some spyware takes screen captures of the system, and it is common for such spyware
to hide them in the temp folder.
Option A is incorrect. There is no evidence of any corporate data, just screenshots from
the salesperson’s own machine. And if he was stealing data, he would not draw attention
to his computer by reporting a problem.
Option B is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario indicates a backdoor.
Option D is incorrect. Updates won’t affect this.
24. A. This is an exact description of DNS poisoning or domain hijacking.
Option B is incorrect. ARP poisoning involves altering the MAC-IP tables in a switch.
Options C and D are incorrect. These are both Bluetooth attacks.
25. C. A black-box test involves absolutely minimal information.
Option A is incorrect. A white-box test involves very complete information being given to
the tester.
Option B is incorrect. This scenario is probably done from outside the network, but external test is not the correct terminology.
Option D is incorrect. Threat test is not a term used in penetration testing.
26. D. A pivot occurs when you exploit one machine and use that as a basis to attack other
systems.
Option A is incorrect. Pivots can be done from internal or external tests.
Options B and C are incorrect. These describe how much information the tester is given in
advance, not how the tester performs the test.
27. A. Shimming is when the attacker places some malware between an application and some
other file, and intercepts the communication to that file (usually to a library or system API).
Option B is incorrect. A Trojan horse might be used to get the shim onto the system, but
that is not described in this scenario.
Option C is incorrect. A backdoor is a means to circumvent system authorization and get
direct access to the system.
Option D is incorrect. Refactoring is the process of changing names of variables, functions,
etc. in a program.
28. A. A white-box test involves providing extensive information, as described in this scenario.
Option B is incorrect. A white-box test could be internal or external.
Option C is incorrect. This is the opposite of a black-box test.
Option D is incorrect. Threat test is not a term used in penetration testing.
29. B. His machines are part of a distributed denial-of-service attack.
Option A is incorrect. This scenario describes a generic DDoS, not a specific one like SYN
flood.
Option C is incorrect. These machines could be part of a botnet, or just have a trigger
that causes them to launch the attack at a specific time. The real key in this scenario is the
DDoS attack.
Option D is incorrect. A backdoor gives an attacker access to the target system.
30. D. This is a textbook example of how ransomware works.
Option A is incorrect. A rootkit gives administrative, or root, access.
Option B is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its malicious activity when some specific condition is met.
Option C is incorrect. A boot sector virus, as the name suggests, infects the boot sector of
the target computer.
31. D. Whaling is targeting a specific individual.
Option A is incorrect. Spear phishing targets a small group.
Option B is incorrect. Targeted phishing is not a term used in the industry.
Option C is incorrect. Phishing is the generic term for a wide range of related attacks.
32. C. You are concerned about buffer overflows, and thus checking buffer boundaries is the
best defense.
Options A and B are incorrect. While these technological solutions can always be a benefit
for security, they are unlikely to address buffer overflow attacks effectively.
Option D is incorrect. Checking user input helps defend against SQL injection and crosssite scripting.
33. C. Security audits typically focus on checking policies, documents, and so forth.
Option A is incorrect. Vulnerability scans use automated and semiautomated processes to
check for known vulnerabilities.
Option B is incorrect. Penetration tests attempt to actually exploit vulnerabilities and
breach systems.
Option D is incorrect. Security test is too general a term.
34. A. Although many things could explain what she is experiencing, the scenario most
closely matches connecting to a rogue access point where her login credentials were stolen.
Options B and C are incorrect. Both involve malware, and the scenario states no sign of
malware was found.
Option D is incorrect. This does not match the symptoms of a buffer overflow attack.
35. D. This is a classic example of an attacker using social engineering on the accountant, in
order to gain access to his system.
Options A and B are incorrect. This scenario does not describe either IP or MAC spoofing.
Option C is incorrect. A man-in-the-middle attack would require an attacker to get in
between a source and destination for some sort of electronic communication. That is not
described in this scenario.
36. D. An intrusion detection system will simply report issues, and not block the traffic.
Option A is incorrect. An intrusion prevention system will stop suspected traffic, and in
the event of a false positive, will shut down legitimate traffic.
Option B is incorrect. A web application firewall (WAF), as the name suggests, primarily
protects a web server against external attacks.
Option C is incorrect. SIEMs aggregate logs for analysis.
37. A. A rainbow table is a table of precomputed hashes, used to retrieve passwords.
Option B is incorrect. A backdoor is used to gain access to a system, not recover passwords.
Options C and D are incorrect. While both of these can be used to gain access to passwords, they are not tables of precomputed hashes.
38. A. Bluejacking involves sending unsolicited messages to Bluetooth devices when they are
in range.
Option B is incorrect. Bluesnarfing involves getting data from the Bluetooth device.
Options C and D are incorrect. Evil twin uses a rogue access point whose name is similar
or identical to that of a legitimate access point.
39. A. This is the term for rummaging through the waste/trash.
Options B and D are incorrect. These terms, though grammatically correct, are simply not
the terms used in the industry.
Option C is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario describes social engineering.
40. B. Bluesnarfing involves accessing data from a Bluetooth device when it is in range.
Option A is incorrect. Bluejacking involves sending unsolicited messages to Bluetooth
devices when they are in range.
Option C is incorrect. Evil twin uses a rogue access point whose name is similar or
identical to that of a legitimate access point.
Option D is incorrect. A RAT is a remote-access Trojan. Nothing in this scenario points to
a RAT being the cause of the stolen data.
41. A. This is a remote-access Trojan (RAT), malware that opens access for someone to
remotely access the system.
Option B is incorrect. A backdoor does provide access but it is usually in the system due to
programmers putting it there, not due to malware on the system.
Option C is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its misdeeds when some logical condition
is met.
Option D is incorrect. A rootkit provides root or administrative access to the system.
42. D. The term used in the industry is excessive privileges, and it is the opposite of good
security practice, which states that each user should have least privileges (i.e., just enough
privileges to do his or her job).
Options A through C are incorrect. While these are grammatically correct, they are not
the terms used in the industry.
43. Option B is correct; zero-day exploits are new, and they are not in the virus definitions for
the antivirus programs. This makes them difficult to detect, except by their behavior.
Options A, C, and D are incorrect. These are all forms of malware, but should be picked
up by at least one of the antivirus programs.
44. Option B is correct. When using products the vendor no longer supports, also known as
end-of-life, one major concern is that there won’t be patches available for any issues or
vulnerabilities.
Option A is incorrect; this is certainly not normal.
Option C is incorrect. SIEMs aggregate logs and are operating system agnostic.
Option D is incorrect. An older system is not necessarily more susceptible to denial-ofservice (DoS) attacks.
45. D. WiFi protected setup (WPS) uses a PIN to connect to the wireless access point (WAP).
The WPS attack attempts to intercept that PIN in transmission, connect to the WAP, and
then steal the WPA2 password.
Options A and B are incorrect. Nothing in this scenario requires or describes a rogue
access point/evil twin.
Option C is incorrect. An IV attack is an obscure cryptographic attack.
46. C. Initialization vectors are used with stream ciphers. An IV attack attempts to exploit a
flaw to use the IV to expose encrypted data.
Options A and B are incorrect. Nothing in this scenario requires or describes a rogue
access point/evil twin.
Option D is incorrect. WiFi protected setup (WPS) uses a PIN to connect to the wireless
access point (WAP). The WPS attack attempts to intercept that PIN in transmission, connect to the WAP, and then steal the WPA2 password.
47. A. Any of these systems could help with detecting malicious activity by an insider, but the
intrusion prevention system will block such activity, if detected.
Option B is incorrect. SIEMs simply aggregate logs.
Option C is incorrect. A honeypot can be useful in trapping a malicious actor but not in
stopping data exfiltration.
Option D is incorrect. Firewalls can block traffic, but normally data exfiltration looks like
normal traffic and is hard for a firewall to block.
48. D. This appears to be a situation where your network’s DNS server is compromised and
sending people to a fake site.
Option A is incorrect. A Trojan horse is malware tied to a legitimate program.
Option B is incorrect. IP spoofing would be using a fake IP address, but that is not
described in this scenario. In fact, the users are not even typing in IP addresses—they are
typing in URLs.
Option C is incorrect. Clickjacking involves tricking users into clicking something other
than what they intended.
49. B. This is a classic description of jamming.
Option A is incorrect. IV attacks are obscure cryptographic attacks on stream ciphers.
Option C is incorrect. WiFi protected setup (WPS) uses a PIN to connect to the wireless
access point (WAP). The WPS attack attempts to intercept that PIN in transmission, connect to the WAP, and then steal the WPA2 password.
Option D is incorrect. A botnet is a group of machines that are being used, without their
consent, as part of an attack.
50. A. This is the classic description of clickjacking.
Options B and C are incorrect. These are Bluetooth attacks.
Option D is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario requires or describes an evil twin.
51. B. Cross-site request forgery sends fake requests to a website that purport to be from a
trusted, authenticated user.
Option A is incorrect. Cross-site scripting exploits the trust the user has for the website
and embeds scripts into that website.
Option C is incorrect. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
Option D is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario requires or describes an evil twin.
52. C. This is a classic example of typosquatting. The website is off by only one or two letters,
hoping that when users to the real website mistype the URL they will go to the fake
website.
Option A is incorrect. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session.
Option B is incorrect. Cross-site request forgery sends fake requests to a website that purport to be from a trusted, authenticated user.
Option D is incorrect. Clickjacking attempts to trick users into clicking on something
other than what they intended.
53. A. Bluesnarfing uses Bluetooth to extract data from a Bluetooth device.
Option B is incorrect. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session.
Option C is incorrect. Backdoors are built-in methods to circumvent authentication.
Option D is incorrect. Cross-site request forgery sends fake requests to a website that purport to be from a trusted, authenticated user.
54. B. This is a classic example of a disassociation attack. The attacker tricks users into disassociating from the device.
Option A is incorrect. Misconfiguration won’t cause authenticated users to de-authenticate.
Option C is incorrect. Session hijacking involves taking over an authenticated session.
Option D is incorrect. Backdoors are built-in methods to circumvent authentication.
55. A. This is an example of a dictionary attack. The attacker uses a list of words that are
believed to be likely passwords.
Option B is incorrect. A rainbow table is a precomputed table of hashes.
Option C is incorrect. Brute force tries every possible random combination. If attacker has
the original plaintext and ciphertext for a message, they can determine the key space used
through brute force attempts targeting the keyspace.
Option D is incorrect. Session hijacking is when the attacker takes over an authenticated
session.
56. B. This is a classic example of a downgrade attack.
Option A is incorrect. In a disassociation attack, the attacker attempts to force the victim
into disassociating from a resource.
Option C is incorrect. Session hijacking is when the attacker takes over an authenticated
session.
Option D is incorrect. Brute force attempts every possible random combination to get the
password or encryption key.
57. D. A collision is when two different inputs produce the same hash.
Option A is incorrect. A rainbow table is a table of precomputed hashes.
Option B is incorrect. Brute force attempts every possible random combination to get the
password or encryption key.
Option C is incorrect. Session hijacking is when the attacker takes over an authenticated
session.
58. C. An advanced persistent threat (APT) involves sophisticated (i.e., advanced) attacks over
a period of time (i.e., persistent)
Option A is incorrect. A distributed denial of service could be a part of an APT, but in and
of itself is unlikely to be an APT.
Option B is incorrect. Brute force attempts every possible random combination to get the
password or encryption key.
Option D is incorrect. In a disassociation attack, the attacker attempts to force the victim
into disassociating from a resource.
59. D. Whether the attacker is an organized criminal, hacktivist, nation-state attacker, or
script kiddie, the amount of data stolen could be large or small.
Options A, B, and C are all incorrect. These are exactly the attributes of an attack you do
examine to determine the most likely attacker.
60. A. When an IDS or antivirus mistakes legitimate traffic for an attack, this is called a false
positive.
Option B is incorrect. A false negative is when the IDS mistakes an attack for legitimate
traffic. It is the opposite of a false positive.
Options C and D are both incorrect. While these may be grammatically correct, these are
not the terms used in the industry.
61. A. The term for attempting to gain any privileges beyond what you have is privilege
escalation.
Option B is incorrect. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session.
Options C and D are incorrect. These are not terms used in the industry.
62. C. This is a classic definition of a race condition: when multiple threads in an application
are using the same variable and the situation is not properly handled.
Option A is incorrect. A buffer overflow is attempting to put more data in a buffer than it
is designed to hold.
Option B is incorrect. A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeed when some logical condition is met.
Option D is incorrect. As the name suggests, improper error handling is the lack of adequate or appropriate error handling mechanisms within software.
63. B. This is a classic example of a Trojan horse.
Option A is incorrect. A rootkit gives root or administrative access.
Option C is incorrect. Spyware is malware that records user activities.
Option D is incorrect. A boot sector virus is a virus that infects the boot sector of the hard
drive.
64. A. If a certificate is revoked, it can be used until the new certificate revocation list is
published.
Options B, C, and D are all incorrect. They do not accurately describe the scenario given.
65. C. A buffer overflow is possible when boundaries are not checked and the attacker tries to
put in more data than the variable can hold.
Option A is incorrect. Cross-site scripting is a web page attack.
Option B is incorrect. Cross-site request forgery is a web page attack.
Option D is incorrect. A logic bomb is malware that performs its misdeed when some condition is met.
66. B. This is the definition of a logic bomb.
Option A is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
Option C is incorrect. A buffer overflow occurs when the attacker attempts to put more
data in a variable than it can hold.
Option D is incorrect. A sparse infector virus performs its malicious activity intermittently
to make it harder to detect.
67. D. A polymorphic virus changes from time to time, and that would explain the different
behavior on different computers.
Option A is incorrect. The scenario is about malware.
Option B is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
Option C is incorrect. A macro virus is embedded into a document as a macro.
68. A. This is the definition of a Smurf attack.
Option B is incorrect. The scenario does not state if this attack is coming from multiple
sources, thus being distributed (i.e., distributed denial of service).
Option C is incorrect. A hijacking attack attempts to take over an authenticated session.
Option D is incorrect. The signature of a SYN flood is multiple half-open connections.
69. C. Polymorphic viruses periodically change their signature or even their code.
Option A is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
Option B is incorrect. This is not a hoax—it is an actual virus.
Option D is incorrect. The category of stealth virus is very broad and might include
polymorphic as well as armored and sparse infectors, but the scenario is more specific,
pointing to polymorphic.
70. A. This is the definition of a macro virus.
Option B is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
Option C is incorrect. A Trojan horse is malware that is tied to a legitimate program. In
this scenario, the malware is actually embedded in an Office document. The two are similar, but not the same.
Option D is incorrect. A remote access Trojan (RAT) is a Trojan horse that gives the
attacker remote access to the machine.
71. C. The intermittent burst of malicious activity is the definition of a sparse infector virus.
Option A is incorrect. A macro virus is embedded in a document as a macro.
Option B is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its misdeeds when a specific condition is met.
Option D is incorrect. A polymorphic virus changes its signature, or even its code,
periodically.
72. B. Multipartite viruses combine boot sector with file infection.
Option A is incorrect. Polymorphic viruses periodically change their signature or even
their code.
Option C is incorrect. Stealth viruses use one or more techniques to make them harder
to find.
Option D is incorrect. This is not an industry term for any sort of virus.
73. C. By giving the tester logins, you are allowing him to conduct a privileged scan (i.e., a
scan with some privileges).
Options A and B are incorrect. These describe the level of knowledge the tester is given of
the network. A privilege scan cannot be a black-box test, but it could be either white-box
or gray-box.
Option D is incorrect. While this is grammatically correct, it is not the term used in the
industry.
74. C. Botnets are often used to launch DDoS attacks, with the attack coming from all the
computers in the botnet simultaneously.
Option A is incorrect. Phishing attacks attempt to get the user to give up information,
click on a link, or open an attachment.
Option B is incorrect. Adware consists of unwanted pop-up ads.
Option D is incorrect. A Trojan horse attaches malware to a legitimate program.
75. A. Accounts should be configured to expire. If this had occurred, then the account would
no longer be active.
Option B is incorrect. While properly trained users are important, that is not what caused
this issue.
Options C and D are incorrect. These are unrelated to an old account still being active.
76. C. This is a classic example of the problem with default configurations.
Option A is incorrect. Configuring the accounts is not the issue; changing default passwords and settings is.
Option B is incorrect. Yes, training users is important, but that’s not the issue in this
scenario.
Option D is incorrect. Patching systems is important, but that won’t change default
settings.
77. D. In a DLL injection, the malware attempts to inject code into the process of some
library. This is a rather advanced attack.
Option A is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its misdeed when some condition is met.
Option B is incorrect. Session hijacking is taking over an authenticated session.
Option C is incorrect. Buffer overflows are done by sending more data to a variable than it
can hold.
78. D. This is the definition of pointer dereferencing. It is a somewhat obscure and sophisticated attack on a target program.
Option A is incorrect. In a DLL injection, the malware tries to inject code into the memory
process space of a library.
Option B is incorrect. In a buffer overflow, the attacker sends more data to a variable than
it can hold.
Option C is incorrect. A memory leak occurs when memory is allocated in some programming function but not deallocated. Each time the function is called, more system memory
is used up.
79. B. System sprawl occurs when a system grows and there are devices on the system that are
not documented.
Options A, C, and D are all incorrect. While these are all serious security issues, they are
unrelated to the scenario presented.
80. C. An intrusive scan could possibly cause some disruption of operations. For this reason,
it should be conducted outside normal business hours.
Option A is incorrect. A penetration test actually attempts to breach the network by
exploiting vulnerabilities.
Option B is incorrect. An audit is primarily a document check.
Option D is incorrect. Both intrusive and nonintrusive vulnerability scans can be effective
at finding vulnerabilities.
81. D. The fact that the website is defaced in a manner related to the company’s public policies is the definition of hacktivism.
Options A, B, and C are incorrect. None of these account for the statements adverse to the
company’s policies, which is why hacktivism is the real cause.
82. C. While you might suppose that a nation-state attacker (the usual attacker behind an
advanced persistent threat) would attack from a foreign IP address, they often use a compromised address in the target country as a base for attacks.
Options A, B, and D are all incorrect. These are actually signs of an advanced persistent
threat.
83. A. The terms evil twin and rogue access point both refer to fake access points that broadcast
what appear to be legitimate SSIDs.
Options B, C, and D are incorrect. They do not adequately explain this attack.
84. A. The fact that the IP addresses are within your country might make you discard the
nation-state attacker, but it is common for nation-state attackers to use compromised IP
addresses in the target country from which to attack. The other symptoms—a sophisticated attack, over time—are hallmarks of nation-state attackers.
Option B is incorrect. Nothing in the scenario indicates an ideological motive.
Option C is incorrect. In fact, this attack is the antithesis of the simple attack of a script
kiddie.
Option D is incorrect. A lone attacker, no matter how skilled, would have difficulty maintaining sustained attacks over a year.
85. A. This is the definition of a zero-day attack.
Options B, C, and D are incorrect. These do not adequately describe a zero-day attack.
86. C. This is the definition of DNS poisoning.
Option A is incorrect. A backdoor provides access to the system by circumventing normal
authentication.
Option B is incorrect. An APT is an advanced persistent threat.
Option D is incorrect. A Trojan horse ties a malicious program to a legitimate program.
87. B. This is, in fact, the definition of a Trojan horse.
Options A, C, and D are incorrect. These are all possible attacks, but do not match what is
described in the question scenario.
88. A. A remote access Trojan (RAT) is malware that gives the attacker remote access to the
victim machine.
Option B is incorrect. While a backdoor will give access, it is usually something in the system put there by programmers, not introduced by malware.
Option C is incorrect. A RAT is a type of Trojan horse, but Trojan horse is more general
than what is described in the scenario.
Option D is incorrect. A macro virus is a virus embedded in a document.
89. B. Cross-site request forgery sends forged requests to a website, supposedly from a
trusted user.
Option A is incorrect. Cross-site scripting is the injection of scripts into a website to
exploit the users.
Option C is incorrect. A buffer overflow tries to put more data in a variable than the variable can hold.
Option D is incorrect. A remote-access Trojan (RAT) is malware that gives the attacker
access to the system.
90. C. Sparse infector viruses perform their malicious activity sporadically.
Option A is incorrect. This does not describe an advanced persistent threat.
Option B is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of the hard drive.
Option D is incorrect. A keylogger is spyware that records keystrokes.
91. D. This is a classic example of whaling, phishing that targets a specific individual.
Option A is incorrect. Clickjacking is an attack that tries to trick users into clicking on
something other than what they believe they are clicking on.
Option B is incorrect. While all phishing uses some social engineering, whaling is the most
accurate description of this attack.
Option C is incorrect. Spear phishing targets a group, not a single individual.
92. B. Large, half-open connections are the hallmark of a SYN flood.
Option A is incorrect. These are all coming from a single IP address, so they cannot be a
distributed denial-of-service attack.
Option C is incorrect. A buffer overflow seeks to put more data in a variable than it is
designed to hold.
Option D is incorrect. ARP poisoning poisons the address resolution table of a switch.
93. A. SQL injection places malformed SQL into text boxes.
Option B is incorrect. Clickjacking attempts to trick the user into clicking on something
other than what he or she intended.
Option C is incorrect. Cross-site scripting puts scripts into text fields that will be viewed
by other users.
Option D is incorrect. Bluejacking is a Bluetooth attack.
94. C. The user-selected password is always a weak link in hard drive encryption.
Option A is incorrect. Yes, it is good system, but there is a weakness.
Option B is incorrect. 128-bit AES is more than adequate for corporate purposes.
Option D is incorrect. DES is outdated, and AES should be used.
95. A. If an attacker can induce the web application to generate the memory leak, then eventually the web application will consume all memory on the web server and the web server
will freeze up.
Option B is incorrect. Backdoors are not caused by memory leaks.
Option C is incorrect. SQL injection places malformed SQL into text boxes.
Option D is incorrect. A buffer overflow attempts to put more data in a variable than it
can hold.
96. D. This is the definition of a race condition.
Option A is incorrect. Memory leaks occur when memory is allocated, but not
deallocated.
Option B is incorrect. A buffer overflow is when more data is put into a variable than it
can hold.
Option C is incorrect. An integer overflow occurs when an attempt is made to put an
integer that is too large into a variable, such as trying to put a 64-bit integer into a 32-bit
variable.
97. B. Near-field communication (NFC) is susceptible to an attacker eavesdropping on the
signal.
Option A is incorrect. Tailgating is a physical attack and not affected by NFC technology.
Options C and D are incorrect. These are both unrelated to NFC technology.
98. B. Tailgating involves simply following a legitimate user through the door once he or she
has opened it.
Option A is incorrect. This is unrelated to physical security.
Option C is incorrect. It is possible to generate a fake smartcard, but that is a very uncommon attack.
Option D is incorrect. Again, this is possible but is very uncommon.
99. D. This is the definition of shimming.
Option A is incorrect. Application spoofing is not a term used in the industry.
Options B and C are incorrect. These are both wireless attacks.
100. D. This scenario is the definition of passing the hash.
Option A is incorrect. A real hash was provided; it was not spoofed.
Option B is incorrect. Evil twin is a wireless attack.
Option C is incorrect. Shimming is inserting malicious code between an application and a
library.
101. B. Claiming to be from tech support is claiming authority, and the story the caller gave
indicates urgency.
Option A is incorrect. Yes, this caller used urgency (the virus spread) but did not attempt
intimidation.
Option C is incorrect. Authority and trust are closely related, and in this case urgency was
the second major factor.
Option D is incorrect. This caller used urgency but not intimidation.
102. A. This is the definition of ARP poisoning.
Option B is incorrect. In DNS poisoning domain name to IP address entries in a DNS
server are altered.
Option C is incorrect. This attack did not involve a man-in-the-middle.
Option D is incorrect. A backdoor provides access to the attacker, which circumvents normal authentication.
103. A. This is a classic multipartite virus. It infects the boot sector, as well as an operating
system file.
Option B is incorrect. This infects the boot sector, but also infects an operating system file
as well.
Option C is incorrect. A macro virus is embedded, as a macro, into a document.
Option D is incorrect. A polymorphic virus changes periodically.
104. C. Bluesnarfing accesses data on the cell phone.
Option A is incorrect. Phonejacking is not a term used in the industry.
Option B is incorrect. Bluejacking sends unwanted text messages to the phone.
Option D is incorrect. Evil twin is a WiFi attack.
105. D. A rainbow table is a table of precomputed hashes.
Option A is incorrect. A dictionary attack is a table of common words used to guess the
password.
Option B is incorrect. Brute force involves trying every random possibility.
Option C is incorrect. In pass the hash, the attacker has the hash and bypasses the application, passing the hash directly to the backend service.
106. C. The fact that the attack is coming from multiple sources makes this a distributed denial
of service.
Option A is incorrect. A Smurf attack involves sending spoofed broadcast packets to the
target network’s router.
Option B is incorrect. Yes, this is a denial-of-service attack, but it is distributed.
Option D is incorrect. A SYN flood involves lots of half-open connections.
107. A. A downgrade attack is often used against secure communications such as TLS in an
attempt to get the user to shift to less secure modes.
Option B is incorrect. A brute-force attack tries either all possible passwords or all possible
cryptography keys to gain access.
Option C is incorrect. A rainbow table is a table of precomputed hashes used to retrieve
passwords.
Option D is incorrect. Bluesnarfing is a Bluetooth attack on cell phones.
108. A. In a white-box test, the tester is given extensive knowledge of the target network.
Option B is incorrect. This is not a term used to describe testing.
Option C is incorrect. Black-box testing involves only very minimal information being
given to the tester.
Option D is incorrect. A red team test simulates a particular type of attacker, such as a
nation-state attacker, an insider, or other type of attacker.
109. C. Social engineering is about using people skills to get information you would not otherwise have access to.
Option A is incorrect. Despite the word engineering, this has nothing to do with technical
means.
Option B is incorrect. This would be dumpster diving.
Option D is incorrect. Yes, phishing emails use some social engineering, but that is one
example of social engineering, not a definition.
110. C. Shoulder surfing involves literally looking over someone’s shoulder in a public place
and gathering information, perhaps login passwords.
Option A is incorrect. ARP poisoning alters the address resolution protocol tables in the
switch.
Option B is incorrect. Phishing is an attempt to gather information, often via email, or to
convince a user to click a link to, and/or download, an attachment.
Option D is incorrect. Smurf is a type of denial-of-service attack.
111. D. The sending of spoofed broadcast messages to the target network router is a Smurf
attack.
Option A is incorrect. In a SYN flood, a large number of SYN packets are sent but not
responded to. This leads to a large number of half-open connections.
Option B is incorrect. An ICMP flood is a large amount of ICMP (such as ping) packets
sent to the target.
Option C is incorrect. In a buffer overflow attack, more data is sent to a variable than it
was designed to hold.
112. C. Cross-site scripting involves entering code (script) into a text field that will be displayed
to other users.
Option A is incorrect. In SQL injection, malformed SQL statements are entered into a text
box in an attempt to circumvent the website’s security.
Option B is incorrect. A logic bomb is software that performs its malicious activity when
some condition is met.
Option D is incorrect. Session hijacking involves taking over an authenticated session.
113. A. Putting false entries into the DNS records of a DNS server is DNS poisoning.
Option B is incorrect. A denial-of-service attack attempts to overwhelm a server or service
and render it inaccessible to legitimate users.
Option C is incorrect. DNS caching is a method of normal DNS operations.
Option D is incorrect. A Smurf attack is a type of denial of service.
114. D. IP addresses in the range of 169.254 are automatic private IP addresses (APIPA) and
indicate the system could not get a dynamic IP address from the DHCP server. This is a
typical symptom of DHCP starvation.
Option A is incorrect. Smurf attacks involve sending spoofed broadcast messages to the
target network’s router.
Option B is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario describes a man-in-the-middle attack.
Option C is incorrect. Nothing in this scenario indicates a distributed denial-of-service
attack.
115. B. Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks often use bots in a botnet to perform the
attack.
Option A is incorrect. Denial of service (DoS) is too broad a category and does not adequately match the scenario description.
Option C is incorrect. A buffer overflow attempts to put more data into a variable than it
is designed to accept.
Option D is incorrect. A Trojan horse links a malware program to a legitimate program.
116. B. A logic bomb will perform its malicious activity when some condition is met, often a
date or time. This is commonly done by disgruntled exiting employees.
Options A, C, and D are all incorrect. It is certainly possible that any of these could be
left by an exiting employee, but logic bombs are far more common. The reason is that the
other three would execute their malicious activity immediately, making an obvious connection to the exiting employee.
117. C. A correct three-way handshake involves the client sending a SYN packet, the server
responding with SYN and ACK, and the client completing the handshake with an ACK. If
you see a large number SYN packets without the corresponding ACK, that is likely to be a
SYN flood.
Options A and B are incorrect. Address and port numbers have nothing to do with SYN
flood attacks.
Option D is incorrect. RST is not the appropriate response to a SYN, and you should not
expect to see RSTs in response to a SYN.
118. A. In a white-box test, the tester has full or very nearly full knowledge of the system.
Option B is incorrect. No knowledge is a black-box test.
Options C and D are incorrect. In any test, the tester should have permission to access the
system.
119. A. Passive information gathering involves using methods other than directly accessing the
network to gather information. Social media and newsgroups are commonly used.
Option B is incorrect. Active information gathering involves tasks such as port scanning
that actually do connect to the target network.
Option C is incorrect. The initial exploit is when the tester tries to gain some access to
some aspect of the system.
Option D is incorrect. Vulnerability scanning involves automated and semiautomated processes to find known vulnerabilities in a system.
120. B. This is the definition of session hijacking.
Option A is incorrect. Man-in-the-middle involves having some process between the two
ends of communication in order to compromise passwords or cryptography keys.
Option C is incorrect. A backdoor is some means for accessing a system that circumvents
normal authentication.
Option D is incorrect. A Smurf attack is a specific type of denial-of-service attack.
121. B. Vulnerability scans use automated and semiautomated processes to identify known
vulnerabilities.
Option A is incorrect. Audits usually involve document checks.
Options C and D are incorrect. These are both types of penetration tests.
122. A. Near-field communication (NFC) can be susceptible to eavesdropping. Smartphones
with NFC can be used as payment methods and should utilize biometric/pin to avoid
information being stolen.
Option B is incorrect. Man-in-the-middle involves having some process between the two
ends of communication in order to compromise passwords or cryptography keys.
Option C is incorrect. A buffer overflow attack attempts to put more data in a variable
than the variable is designed to hold. This is improper input handling is the root cause to
many buffer overflow.
Option D is incorrect. A Smurf attack is a type of denial of service.
123. A. A gray-box test involves the tester being given partial information about the network.
Option B is incorrect. A white-box test involves the tester being given full or nearly full
information about the target network.
Options C and D are incorrect. Neither of these is a testing term.
124. D. In the man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker is between the client and the server, and
to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
Option A is incorrect. This does not describe any denial-of-service attack.
Option B is incorrect. A replay attack involves resending login information.
Option C is incorrect. Although a man-in-the-middle can be used to perform eavesdropping, in this scenario the best answer is man-in-the-middle.
125. A. In a man-in-the-browser attack, the malware intercepts calls from the browser to the
system, such as system libraries.
Option B is incorrect. Man-in-the-middle involves having some process between the two
ends of communication in order to compromise passwords or cryptography keys.
Option C is incorrect. In a buffer overflow attack, more data is put into a variable than the
variable was intended to hold.
Option D is incorrect. Session hijacking involves taking over an authenticated session.
126. B. This is the initial exploit, which involves getting initial access to the system.
Option A is incorrect. Vulnerability scanning is an automated process that checks for the
presence of known vulnerabilities.
Options C and D are incorrect. These both refer to how much information about the network the tester is given. In both black-box and white-box tests, there will still be an initial
exploit.
127. C. When a vendor no longer supports software, there won’t be patches for vulnerabilities
or other issues.
Option A is incorrect. Although this may be true, it is not a security issue.
Option B is incorrect. Again, this may be true, but this is not the primary risk.
Option D is incorrect. This may or may not be true.
128. D. Placing a larger integer value into a smaller integer variable is an integer overflow.
Option A is incorrect. Memory overflow is not a term used, and memory leak is about
allocating memory and not deallocating it.
Option B is incorrect. Buffer overflows usually involve arrays.
Option C is incorrect. Variable overflow is not a term used in the industry.
129. C. Armoring can be as simple as very trivial encryption, but any process that makes it difficult to reverse-engineer a virus is armoring.
Option A is incorrect. A polymorphic virus periodically changes itself.
Option B is incorrect. A macro virus is embedded, as a macro, into a document.
Option D is incorrect. A boot sector virus infects the boot sector of a hard drive.
130. A. Deauthorizing users from a resource is called disassociation.
Option B is incorrect. Session hijacking involves taking over an authenticated session.
Option C is incorrect. In the man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker is between the client
and the server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
Option D is incorrect. Smurf is a type of denial-of-service attack where the attacker
attempts to exhaust the resources and prevent users from accessing necessary systems.
131. A. Sending fake DNS requests that are overly large is called an amplification attack. It is a
highly specialized type of denial of service.
Option B is incorrect. DNS poisoning seeks to put fake DNS records in a DNS server.
Option C is incorrect. DNS spoofing is using fake DNS information.
Option D is incorrect. The Smurf attack is a denial of service.
132. B. In this scenario, no technical issues are mentioned—just people seeing information. So
shoulder surfing best fits the scenario.
Option A is incorrect. No social engineering is involved in this scenario.
Option C is incorrect. Although a man-in-the-middle attack on the wireless access point
(WAP) could compromise data, that’s not what is described in this scenario.
Option D is incorrect. Cross-site request forgery is a website attack.
133. A. Cross-site scripting is an attack on the user that is based on the user trusting the website.
Options B, C, and D are incorrect.
134. A. Targeting a specific group is the definition of spear phishing.
Option B is incorrect. In the man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker is between the client
and the server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
Option C is incorrect. Target phishing is not an industry term.
Option D is incorrect. Vishing is phishing via voice over IP (VoIP).
135. A. Encryption is one method for armored viruses.
Option B is incorrect. Ransomware encrypts files but is not encrypted itself.
Option C is incorrect. A polymorphic virus periodically changes itself.
Option D is incorrect. A Trojan horse combines malware with a legitimate program.
136. D. This is the definition of a rootkit.
Option A is incorrect. A Trojan horse combines malware with a legitimate program.
Option B is incorrect. A logic bomb performs its malicious activity when some condition
is met.
Option C is incorrect. A multipartite virus infects the boot sector and a file.
137. B. This is vishing, or using voice calls for phishing.
Option A is incorrect. Spear phishing is targeting a small, specific group.
Option C is incorrect. War dialing is dialing numbers hoping a computer modem answers.
Option D is incorrect. Robocalling is used to place unsolicited telemarketing calls.
138. A. Cross-site request forgery is an attack on the website that is based on the website trusting the user.
Options B, C, and D are all incorrect.
139. A. This is the definition of a multipartite virus.
Option B is incorrect. A rootkit gets admin or root privileges.
Option C is incorrect. Ransomware encrypts files and demands a ransom.
Option D is incorrect. A worm is a fast-spreading virus.
140. A. This is the definition of a worm.
Option B is incorrect. A virus is software that self-replicates.
Option C is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its malicious activity when some condition
is met.
Option D is incorrect. A Trojan horse combines malware with a legitimate program.
141. B. Dumpster diving is the process of going through the trash to find documents.
Option A is incorrect. Phishing is often done via email or phone, and is an attempt to elicit
information or convince a user to click a link or open an attachment.
Option C is incorrect. Shoulder surfing is literally looking over someone’s shoulder.
Option D is incorrect. In the man-in-the-middle attack the attacker is between the client
and the server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
142. D. This is the definition of a macro virus.
Option A is incorrect. A logic bomb executes its malicious activity when some condition
is met.
Option B is incorrect. A rootkit obtains administrative or root access.
Option C is incorrect. A Trojan horse connects malware to a legitimate program.
143. A. URL hijacking or typosquatting is done by naming a phishing URL very similar to an
actual URL.
Option B is incorrect. DNS poisoning would be entering fake entries into a DNS server.
Option C is incorrect. Cross-site scripting would show as a breach of the website.
Option D is incorrect. In the man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker is between the client
and the server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
144. C. The dictionary attack uses common passwords.
Option A is incorrect. Rainbow tables are tables of precomputed hashes.
Option B is incorrect. The birthday attack is a method for generating collisions of hashes.
Option D is incorrect. No spoofing is indicated in this scenario.
145. A. This is the definition of a replay attack.
Option B is incorrect. IP spoofing is the process of faking an IP address.
Option C is incorrect. This is not a term used in the industry.
Option D is incorrect. Session hijacking is done by taking over an authenticated session.
146. D. Active reconnaissance actually connects to the network using techniques such as port
scanning.
Option A is incorrect. Either can be done manually or with tools.
Option B is incorrect. Black-box and white-box refer to the amount of information the
tester is given.
Option C is incorrect. Attackers and testers use both types of reconnaissance.
147. C. Vulnerability scans identify known vulnerabilities. Penetration tests actually exploit
those vulnerabilities in order to breach the system.
Option A is incorrect. Either insiders or outsiders can do both vulnerability scans and penetration tests.
Option B is incorrect. Both vulnerability scans and penetration tests can use automated
tools and manual techniques.
Option D is incorrect. Black-box and white-box refer to the amount of information the
tester is given.
148. B. This is the definition of a pivot.
Option A is incorrect. In the man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker is between the client
and the server, and to either end, the attacker appears like the legitimate other end.
Option C is incorrect. Shimming involves inserting code between a program and a library.
Option D is incorrect. Vishing is phishing over the phone line, often VoIP.
149. C. Active scanning actually connects to the target network.
Option A is incorrect. Passive scanning does not actually connect to the target network.
Options B and D are incorrect. Black-box and white-box refer to the amount of information the tester is given.
150. D. A firewall not running is not a configuration issue.
Options A, B, and C are all incorrect. These are all common security misconfiguration
issues.